England captain Harry Kane has won the Golden Boot after finishing as the World Cup's top scorer with Croatia's Luka Modric winning the Golden Ball for being the player of the tournament. Belgium midfielder Eden Hazard was the second-best player, with France forward Antoine Griezmann third. Kane is the second Englishman to end as the top scorer in a World Cup after Gary Lineker scored six goals in 1986. Mbappe and Griezmann, who both scored in France's 4-2 final win over Croatia, ended on four goals apiece, two behind Kane. Russia's Denis Cheryshev, Portugal's Cristiano Ronaldo, and Belgium's Romelu Lukaku also scored four times. His French team-mate Kylian Mbappe won the Young Player Award. Belgium's Thibaut Courtois was awarded the Golden Glove for being the leading goalkeeper. Former Tottenham midfielder Modric scored in Croatia's opening two matches - a 2-0 win over against Nigeria and then the 3-0 victory against Argentina - and also made one assist as he guided his country to their first World Cup final, which they lost 4-2 against France. Croatia coach Zlatko Dalic said: "He played a terrific tournament which is another commendation for the team which helped to bring about Luka's success. He did the lion share of our play and he was a deserved winner of the Golden Ball." Chelsea's Hazard got two goals in the 5-2 win over Tunisia and also scored in his side's 2-0 win versus England in the third-fourth play-off on Saturday. Atletico Madrid striker Griezmann won the Golden Boot at the 2016 European Championships with six goals and scored four and made a further two at this World Cup. Paris St-Germain forward Mbappe, 19, enhanced his growing reputation with a series of fine performances that saw him awarded with a silver ball for winning the Young Player Award. He scored the only goal in France's 1-0 group win against Peru, netted twice in the 4-3 win over Argentina in the last 16 and grabbed France's fourth goal in the final. Chelsea's Courtois helped Belgium finish third with a number of fine performances in goal to earn the Golden Glove Award. He kept clean sheets in the group win over Panama and the two matches against England and made a number of vital saves in the wins over Japan and Brazil. 