24 teams battle it out for a place in knockout stages of Euro 2016. There are six groups and there will be four best third placed sides that will progress to the next stage as well.
The result have followed quite a familiar pattern in Euro 2016 so far and it was hosts France who got the ball rolling with a win in the opening game of the tournament, beating Romania 2-1 in the dying minutes of the game through Dimitri Payet’s strike. In Group B, England had done everything except win their tournament opener against Russia. Wayne Rooney’s distribution in the game as first-rate and the men alongside him — Delle Alli, Harry Kane and Raheem Sterling were all excellent but failed to convert that to goals. Eric Dier scored a cracker of a free-kick but it was cancelled out by the Russian skipper in the dying minutes of the game.
Before England got their game underway, Switzerland scored early against Albania in what was quite a feisty encounter between both the sides. The Swiss would go on to protect their lead in the game and registered three points on the board. Then came Wales and Gareth Bale, who left it late. Bale had scored first but Slovakia drew level in the game. In the final few minutes, Hal Robson-Kanu ran in and tapped the ball in through a scrambled effort and the Welsh had created history. Germany and Ukraine, for the first half atleast, played what was an enthralling battle. The Ukrainians, for all their efforts, had nothing to show at the end of it and the Germans walked away with three points on the board. The 15th edition of the European Championships is held in France and this time, the tournament, Euro 2016 will be expanded to 24 teamsa and has certain changes to the format that was prevelant till the last European Championships. The teams will be divided into six groups with four teams each and the top two teams will progress to the knockout stages of the tournament. Apart from those 12 teams, 4 of the best third placed sides will also progress to the next stage. The points scoring system remains the same; 3 for a win 1 for a draw and 0 for a loss.
